# OHMS Embed

The [OHMS Embed module](https://omeka.org/s/modules/ohmsEmbed){target=_blank} allows site administrators to embed Oral History Metadata Synchonizer objects in Omeka S Items. 

## Enabling XML Media Types and File Extensions

The OHMS Editor produces an XML file that carries the metadata, index, and transcript that accompany the oral history. The file must be added to an Omeka S Item as media to facilitate the embedding of the viewer. Generally, XML is not among the allowed media types and file extensions in an Omeka S installation.

Go to the installation Security Settings on the Settings page. 

Add `/xml` to the **Allowed media types** list.

Image

Add `xml` to the **Allowed file extensions** list. 

Image

When you are finished, click the "Save" button in the upper right hand corner of the screen.

## Working with OHMS using Omeka S Items with stored Media

The OHMS Editor can work with media that is stored in a variety of locations (e.g. YouTube, Vimeo). If you would like to host your media directly in the Omeka S installation, you can create Items and upload your media directly. Using this approach, you can create your metadata directly in Omeka S, taking advantage of the range of LOD properties, data types, and controlled vocabularies that are appropriate to describe the content.

Use Host as the Media File Host option in the OHMS Editor. Input the URL for the original file in the Omeka S installation as the Media URL. 

Image

Then, proceed with indexing the oral history. When you are complete, export your OHMS XML file.

Image

Return to the corresponding Omeka S Item and edit it to upload the XML file as media.

Image

## Importing metadata created within the OHMS Editor

Users may chose to create metadata describing an oral history directly in the OHMS Editor. This metadata is stored in the OHMS XML file and can be extracted and mapped to Omeka S metadata properties using the [Extract Metadata module](ExtractMetadata.md).

Configure the Extract Metadata module to enable the OHMS extractor. Then go to the JSON Pointer crosswalk tab to map the metadata fields, either to the media or to the item. Extracted metadata will be generated as plain text.

The following is a list of possible pointers generated by the OHMS Application:

- Record ID: `/id`
- Record date: `/dt`
- OHMS Application version: `/version`
- Interview Date: `/date`
- Date (Non-preferred format): `date_nonpreferred_format`
- CMS: `/cms_record_id`
- Title: `/title`
- Accession Number: `/accession`
- Duration: `/duration`
- Collection ID: `/collection_id`
- Collection Name: `/collection_name`
- Series ID: `/series_id`
- Series (Name): `/series_name`
- Organization: `/repository`
- Acknowledgement: `/funding`
- Organization URL: `/repository_url`
- Media Filename: `/file_name`
- Media ID: `/media_id`
- Media URL: `/media_url`
- Language for Translation: `/transcript_alt_lang`
- Language: `/language`
- User Notes: `/user_notes`
- Type: `/type`
- Summary: `/description`
- `/rel`
- Rights Statement: `/rights`
- Media Format: `/fmt`
- Usage Statment `/usage`
- OHMS XML Location: `/xmllocation`
- OHMS XML Filename: `/xmlfilename`
- Collection Link: `/collection_link`
- Series Link: `/series_link`
- Subject: `/subject`
- Keywords: `keyword`
- Interviewee: `interviewee`
- Interviewer: `interviewer`
- Format: `format`

## Bulk Import of OHMS XML

CSV Import
File Sideload

## Publishing OHMS Interviews in Sites

Add items to the site
Feature them via a browse custom links (regular, faceted, mapping) or preview blocks or add them directly to pages using a Media Embed block.